								PyCitySchools Analysis


	In reviewing the results from the PyCitySchools data, Charter schools are outperforming District schools.  
Particularly in math, the scores average for Charter schools are much higher.  The top five highest-performing 
schools are all Charter and the bottom performing schools are all District.  Charter schools also have a much 
higher over passing percentage than District schools.

	There are many factors that may have contributed to their outperformance.  Charter schools have fewer 
students that can allow for an individualized learning experience with more resources available.  There may 
be fewer students to instructional staff and the staff can have a better understanding of each student’s
progress to restructure accordingly.  This allows for the staff to make better decisions for improvement.  
Such as, should there be more tutoring available? Can other programs be implemented? In clearly understanding 
the impactful factors of student performance, they are likely to have board approval for changes and reallocation
of funds.  There’s flexibility in managing the learning experience and catering to specific needs.  

	The larger school size of District schools could mean overcrowding, fewer instructional staff per students and 
limited time to work with any students that may need additional attention.  Perhaps, additional tutoring isn’t 
possible because of limited staffing.  Resources can be limited, and decision making can be more difficult without
a clearer understanding of what impacts a student’s success.  School leaders are unlikely to make changes when 
they have little evidence to support a positive outcome.  

	In addition, there seems to be little change in performance through grade levels.  The values are consistent 
over the years for both school types and does not appear to be a significant factor in performance.  

	A school’s budget can be one of their most significant resources.  However, the District schools’ higher budget,
shows there is little impact on performance.  When looking at just the total budget, it may appear there are more 
funds, but when comparing it as per student budget, then there is little difference between the school types.  Again,
this is due to school size, with fewer students to distribute the budget at Charter schools.  So although, budget is 
significance, there isn’t an impactful difference here due to distribution.

	In conclusion, school size is a key factor in higher performance.  It not only allows for more resources, but 
can also result in their better use and greater distribution.   
